This programme contains some scenes
which some viewers may find
upsetting.
BREATHES HARD
BIRDSONG
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
WIND RUMBLES
HE EXHALES
BIRDSONG
PHONE RINGS AND VIBRATES
Mathias?
BIRDSONG
FAINT DISPATCHER
WIND WHISTLES
WAVES CRASH
Sorry, sir, I didn't know.
I wasn't here when you arrived.
That's all right.
DC Lloyd Ellis, sir. I've been
looking forward to meeting you.
Yes, just around the corner, sir.
Keep to the left, please, sir.
Morning. Hi.
This way.
Who's Johnny Cash?
That's Eurof Daniel.
Local preacher and friend of Helen
Jenkins, the woman who lives here.
Mrs?
Miss. Mid 60s, devout chapel-goer.
No children, no close family.
Wasn't at chapel this morning.
He came to check to see
if she was OK,
found the door wide open
and the carnage inside.
I'll need to speak to him.
He already knows that, sir.
You'll need these, sir.
Thanks.
FLIES BUZZ
You got a bag? James, bag.
A broken tooth. Nasty.
Vivid. Not my colour.
Might be just another wild bath night
in Aberystwyth, but I doubt it.
PHONE RINGS
DI Rhys.
She's definitely not in hospital
and there's no sign of her car,
but we've mobilised
all available personnel
and checking all possible leads.
What does she drive? Red Rover.
Big enough to move a body? Yes, sir.
That's cheerful. Huh?
Salem, by Sydney Vosper.
The devil's face is said to be
hidden
in the folds of the Welsh
lady's shawl.
My grandmother showed it to me
when I was small.
It still gives me the creeps.
Do you see it?
No. Perhaps you're not looking
hard enough, sir.
Perhaps I need
the help of your grandmother.
KNOCK AT DOOR
When was the last time
you saw Helen Jenkins?
Last Monday.
You seem very sure about that.
I see Helen every Monday.
She cleans the chapel.
Has done so for many years.
Are you a regular visitor here,
Mr Daniel? No.
Helen likes her own company.
Keen boat builder, was she?
Not as far as I know.
Someone she knows is.
Can't imagine who.
Where were you last night?
At home. I, um...
Can anybody verify that?
Verify?
Mr Daniel's wife passed away
less than a year ago, sir.
I'm sorry to hear that, Eurof.
We'll be in touch.
How long have you known him?
Most of my life.
He's a family friend.
Good man? Absolutely.
Further to fall, then.
Oh, for God's sake!
You can't suspect him.
Excuse me, sir. The super's here
to see you. Thank you, Ellis.
You've met most of the team, then?
A little sooner than expected.
I've got half the cognoscenti
of Aberystwyth
in their Sunday chinos waiting
to meet you up at the university.
It's been a busy day, sir.
Not every Sunday is like this.
I hear you've already mobilised
most of the police resources
of west Wales.
Do you have a body? Not yet.
Well, it's a big call
for a missing person.
It was a vicious attack, sir.
And if the victim is Helen Jenkins,
she's already lost a great deal
of blood.
Unless she's had medical attention
in the last 12 hours,
as far as I'm concerned,
this is a murder inquiry.
OK. Keep me informed. I will.
Thank you, sir.
CHURCH BELLS PEAL
Forensics say there may be three
or four different shoe marks
in the hallway of the chalet.
There's no sign of forced entry
or anything to suggest
that it was a robbery
that went wrong,
so perhaps she knew her assailant.
Sorry I'm late, sir. DS Owens.
Don't be late again.
I won't be, sir.
Saturday night, Helen Jenkins
lays out some clean clothes
and takes a bath.
She puts on some red lipstick.
She wants to look nice.
For who? The boat builder?
Or the preacher?
But for some reason
is attacked violently.
Her teeth are knocked out. Stabbed?
No weapon has been found,
but the excessive blood loss would
suggest that kind of attack.
So there's a struggle.
The Vosper painting is smashed,
then she's dragged outside,
put in the back of the car
and driven into the night. Why?
For dumping, sir?
Possibly, if she's already dead.
And if not?
The killer wanted her to suffer.
Find out all you can
about Helen Jenkins.
From what we can gather,
she lived a quiet, frugal existence.
But who does she know?
And more importantly, who might have
a motive strong enough
to want to hurt her so badly?
Yes, sir.
I've already done a bit of homework
on Helen Jenkins, sir.
She ran the Pontarfynach
Children's Home
from 1979 till it closed in '96.
It's now the Devil's Bridge Hotel,
sir.
Devil's Bridge?
On the A4120 out of Aber, sir.
It's about 20 minutes away
to the southeast.
Hm. It's as clear as day when
you know what you're looking for.
If you don't eat your greens,
we'll send you to Devil's Bridge.
I was scared stiff of the place
when I was a kid.
How come?
According to legend, it's where the
devil was tricked by an old lady.
One day, an old lady
and her cow got separated.
She was on one side of the river,
the cow was on the other.
While she was standing there
wondering how to get it back,
the devil appeared
and offered to build her a bridge.
But his price was the soul of the
first living thing to cross it.
She agreed. Next morning, bingo!
There's a bridge.
The devil says, "I've kept
my promise, now you keep yours."
The old lady took
a loaf of bread out of her basket,
threw it across the bridge
and her dog ran after it.
So the devil was tricked
by an old lady.
Yep. The devil was so embarrassed,
he never set foot in Wales again.
Some would say that he never left.
FAINT WELSH SONG
CONSTANT TICKING
PING!
Check out the back.
Hello?
'Alfie!'
Alfie!
The bugger doesn't listen
to a word I say.
My dog.
He's down there somewhere.
Oh, he'll come back when he's ready.
THUNDERCLAP
HE STRAINS
HE BREATHES HARD
THUNDERCLAP
FAINT POLICE RADIO
Get that.
I'll see you in my office at 5:00.
Why haul the body
all the way out here?
Why risk getting caught?
Maybe it wasn't pre-planned.
He thought she was dead
and panicked when he realised
she was still alive.
Alive or dead, the killer
was making a statement.
He was bringing Helen Jenkins home.
You'd be pushed to call this home.
Not if you're the devil.
I need the name of all of the kids
that went through the home during
the time Helen Jenkins ran it.
The children, staff,
anyone connected with the place.
I want to know who they were
and where are they now.
We're already working on it, sir.
Good.
Dr Haydn Blake's on his way in.
Helen Jenkins
was his cleaner for three years.
I'll send someone down
to talk to him.
No. You do this one yourself, Tom.
Haydn's a good friend, plays
a big part in our community here.
He'll appreciate the personal touch.
Right, sir.
Helen was our cleaner.
She worked at the surgery
for three years. She was good.
But we started to notice
money was missing.
How much?
Only small sums.
£10 here, £20 there.
But it added up over the months.
So, you sacked her?
It wasn't just the money.
She started handing these out
to some of my patients.
Young women mostly.
Warning them of the perils of sin.
I couldn't allow that.
And when was this?
Six months ago.
Pity. New cleaner's not a patch
on Helen.
Thank you very much, Dr Blake.
We missed you this afternoon.
At our little gathering.
You were there?
We were all there.
KNOCK AT DOOR
Yep?
Excuse me, sir.
I've been looking into Miss Jenkins'
accounts, sir.
No major debts, no mortgage.
Makes regular small contributions
to the chapel fund.
Forensics? Thanks.
£50 usually. Less in recent months.
She lost her job. But she made
two other payments, sir.
Big ones in April and September.
Both of £500
and both to a Hywel Maybury.
He works at the amusements
on the pier, sir.
Good work.
How's your accommodation, sir?
Perfect, thank you, DC Ellis.
How's yours?
Um...very good, sir. Thank you.
"The night is far spent,
the day is at hand.
"Let us therefore cast off the works
of darkness
"and let us put on
the armour of light."
Not what you want to hear
in the doctor's surgery on a Monday
morning with two screaming kids.
A religious zealot?
Or a devout woman who sincerely
believed she was helping.
Whilst stealing the petty cash?
Where's the quote from?
St Paul to the Romans.
You went to Sunday school.
Perhaps I still do, sir.
Hywel Maybury?
Hywel Maybury's flat
is on the first floor.
Any idea of his movements?
I can't say. Hywel is that quiet,
it's hard to tell if he's in or not.
Try, Mr Latimer.
Well, I let his mam in last Tuesday,
if that's any help?
His mother? Yeah. She comes in
every week to clean.
His mammy cleans for him, does she?
Well, I think so.
Did he have any other visitors?
Girlfriend...?
Coch-y-bonddu.
Classic trout fly.
Good, isn't he?
You into fishing, Inspector?
No.
Sir?
Is this Hywel Maybury?
Yes.
And that's his mam.
WAVES CRASH
Helen Jenkins was brutally assaulted
in her own home,
then taken to Devil's Bridge,
where we believe she was dumped
in a river.
She ran Pontarfynach Children's Home
between 1979 and 1996.
And we're very keen to speak
to ex residents at the home,
especially Hywel Maybury,
who we believe was a close
acquaintance of Miss Jenkins.
The victim's car, a red Rover 100,
registration N347 EP0,
was used by the killer to move her.
The car is still missing
and it is vital that we find it.
Any questions? Helen Jenkins cleaned
for Maybury, gave him money.
Was she his lover?
Is that why she wore the lipstick?
Maybe the lipstick wasn't for him
and he got jealous?
Or was she the mother he never had?
Helen Jenkins had several assistants
at Pontarfynach,
but it seems she was the only one
who lived in.
How many children went through
there during Helen Jenkins' time?
Almost 50. Apart from Hywel Maybury,
how many have you traced?
Er...seven so far. No, eight.
Only one still in Aberystwyth.
Most have moved away, sir.
Getting as far away from the place
as possible, if you ask me.
But we're not asking you.
It's just an opinion.
If you're unhappy, I suggest...
I didn't say I was unhappy, I...
Just give us the facts, Sian,
please!
I didn't mean to snap.
Where were we? Catrin John.
She's the only one we've traced
who's still in Aberystwyth.
She lives on the Glanrhyd estate
now.
Number? 32.
We're talking to everyone
who knew Miss Jenkins,
trying to get an idea of her
movements over the last week or so.
The Pontarfynach kids
are a good place to start.
Plenty of them will be glad
she's dead.
Including you?
Once, definitely. Not now.
What's changed?
Me. I've made something of my life.
Nice house, happy marriage.
And a baby.
My little Awen, yes.
That bad start made me what I am.
Now I'm a mother,
so something good came out of it.
Hm.
Have you had any contact
with Helen Jenkins recently?
No. She's part of my past.
I'd rather she'd stayed there.
Did she treat you badly?
There were rumours of cruelty.
They were true.
And not just to the kids either.
She was horrible to everyone there.
Especially Byron. Byron?
Byron Rodgers.
Odd-job man and gardener.
Did anything she told him.
Does Byron still live locally?
I've no idea, sorry.
Where were you last Saturday
evening? I was...here.
Can anyone vouch for that?
Only Awen.
But she can't talk yet, bless her.
Where was your husband?
Dyfed? Away.
Singing. He's in a choir.
I'm really sorry,
but Awen's due her feed.
Do you mind if I see to her?
No, not at all. Carry on.
Tidy in there. Very.
My house was a tip
when my daughter, Elin, was a baby.
Elin. Nice name.
She's a nice girl.
I hope you're not looking for
guests.
Business bad? Bloody awful.
And bodies in the ravine won't help.
Horrible. We should never have
bought this place.
We? Me and Daf. Daft bugger.
When was that? '98.
You should have seen the place
when we moved in.
The authority couldn't afford
the repairs,
so they just locked up
and walked away.
It was six months before we were
able to take our first paying
guests.
How many rooms? 15. Staff?
Just me. Getting people out here
is a bit of a nightmare.
What's through there? Top floor.
Daf had big plans,
but they didn't include dying.
It's not been touched.
It's still the Pontarfynach
Children's Home up there.
WINGS FLUTTER
Celtic? What?
That spiral.
Looks more like a Walnut Whip to me.
The kids who were here, we assumed.
The authority promised to
take it all away.
Looks like case notes.
Can I take these?
Take 'em all, love.
I hate it up here.
Daf used to tease, but I swear...
..some nights...
I'll leave you to it.
FLY BUZZES
Everyone who's stayed here
in the last three years is in there.
Perfect, can I borrow this too?
Be my guest.
Thanks.
Hope you catch him soon.
CLOCK TICKS LOUDLY
See if any of the names
in there match
those on the Pontarfynach list.
And find me a Super 8 projector.
Super 8, sir. Right.
Dyfed Williams was exactly where
Catrin says he was -
choral trip to Lampeter.
Coach dropped him off just after
half-eleven on Saturday.
Read this. Any progress?
Getting there, but it's slow.
These all joined the army...
these emigrated, or moved abroad.
These...?
Dead.
Any news on Byron Rodgers?
Does odd jobs around the place, sir.
We've got an address for him.
Listen to this - "...is bed-wetting
now on a nightly basis... constant
"demands for attention... confined
to Hard Room for weekend".
"Hard room"?
Signed Helen Jenkins.
No wonder they hated her.
TRAIN HORN BLARES
Byron Rodgers?
Yes?
Have you got a minute?
I'd like to talk to you
about Helen Jenkins.
I looked after the house
and gardens.
Drove the mini-bus to the
chapel on Sundays.
Did you and Helen get on?
She was my boss.
That's not what I asked.
Yes. I got on with her.
TRAIN PASSES
When did you last speak with her?
I haven't spoken to her in years.
But you were her right-hand man.
I was just doing my job.
Do you remember Hywel Maybury?
Yes. Did Helen Jenkins treat him
differently to the other children?
Differently? Well, did she favour
him more - mistreat him more - than
the others?
No.
Did you agree with her methods?
It wasn't my place to agree
or disagree.
When was the last time you
saw Maybury?
LEVEL CROSSING ALARM
The day the home closed.
Anyone else from the home?
Where were you Saturday night?
Here. Alone?
Yes. Doing what?
Working on this.
TRAIN PASSES
Have you ever built a boat?
Why would I need a boat?
FIRE BURNS NEARBY
CHILDREN CHATTER
HAUNTING SONG SCORE
CROWS CAW
DOOR CREAKS
DOOR OPENS
THROBBING SCORE
CREAKING
SUSPENSEFUL SCORE
THROBBING SCORE
SHOUTING AND LAUGHING
GULLS CAW
RADIO: I found that motor car
VRN November 347 Echo, Papa, Oscar.
Refers to a Rover 100, red in colour
registered to a Helen Jenkins.
Yeah, that's received
from Delta Charlie zero four.
Catrin John's best friend
at the home was Jenny James.
They were quite a pair.
The tabloids christened them
"Satan's Daughters".
1987,
they set light to their school.
Both had records for difficult,
violent behaviour. Pontarfynach was
last chance saloon.
Next stop the remand home.
Helen Jenkins made an off-the-cuff
comment about them being
proof of innate evil, original sin
and the need to drive out the devil.
The press leapt on it.
Salem.
She said that they were possessed,
but actually they were just
two nine-year-old foster kids, who'd
been badly let down by the system.
Jenny James...
Regular customer over the years,
sir.
Minor stuff mostly -
petty theft, D&D.
Initially we traced her to
an address in the Grangetown
area of Cardiff,
but I double-checked.
And...? She's back in Aberystwyth.
Not far from the harbour.
KNOCKS DOOR
Does Jenny James live here?
Now what...?
Last time I saw her was
Saturday morning.
We had a row.
What was it about?
What it's always about. This,
this...and this.
She'll be back in a day or so.
In a right mess -
"I'm so sorry, Lee.
Please forgive me, Lee."
Yeah, right(!) Till the next time.
Only, she's never stayed away
this long before.
She sleeps in here
when we've had a ruck
which is
like always these days.
Did you run out of paint?
I was trying to cheer her up a bit.
She went mental,
ranting on about how
she didn't deserve nothing
apart from a hard room.
And then she just buggered off.
I just want her to be happy.
We'll need a photo.
It was mischief. A prank.
But the papers made out it was some
sort of Satanic ritual.
The truth is,
Jenny and I were never taught the
difference between right and wrong.
Until you met Helen Jenkins?
She certainly thought she knew the
difference - and how to teach us.
Why didn't you mention this before?
Didn't seem relevant.
It was such a long time ago
and we were kids.
When the home closed, I wanted to
get as far away from it as possible.
I knew I'd been bad
but it seemed like an ideal moment
to make a new start.
Problem was, Jenny couldn't.
She got in with the wrong crowd
and we went our separate ways.
But you were close once?
Once.
She was the only friend
I had in the world, Mr Mathias.
TRANSLATED FROM WELSH
DRAMATIC SCORE
CLATTER
Agnes?
SHIVERING
Maybury!
HE SHRIEKS
SHRIEKING
I need to talk to someone.
PHONE RINGS
Mathias. You'd better get back here
as soon as possible, sir.
Why, what is it?
Jenny James has just turned herself
in.
She says she killed Helen Jenkins.
Why were you hiding there, Hywel?
Were you scared?
Were you running away because you
did something you were ashamed of?
Did you kill Helen Jenkins, Hywel?
How did you kill her?
I hit her.
With what?
A vase. Smashed her head in.
Knocked the bitch's teeth out.
Why did you do that?
She took out our teeth with no
anaesthetic, liked seeing us suffer.
I gave her a taste of her own
medicine.
Then what did you do?
Stabbed her.
Dragged her out the
front door and put her in the car.
What sort of car?
A little red one.
Then I drove it
up to Devil's Bridge.
And then what did you do?
Stopped on the bridge.
Pulled her
out and shoved her into the river.
Did you have help?
WHISPERS: No.
You took her out of the car
and lifted her over
the parapet on your own?
Yeah.
You look happy the both of you.
I was happy.
She was happy.
It was a happy day.
Sounds lovely.
Tell me about it.
It was my birthday.
So, I went out fishing...
..and I caught
a sea bass and she cooked it for me.
Helen? Did Helen cook the fish?
Is that why you went round
there on Saturday?
So she could cook for you?
What happened on Saturday, Hywel?
I was scared.
That's why I ran away.
Did she do something that
made you angry?
It wasn't my fault.
I went there,
because I used to live there.
To Helen's house?
The hotel!
We lived there once.
It was our home.
I thought I'd be safe.
But nowhere's safe.
They always spit in your face.
Who does?
Everyone! They blame me.
It wasn't my fault!
Did Helen blame you, Hywel?
Is that why you were angry?
Did she shout at you?
Did she call you names?
Is that why you hurt her?
HYWEL!
I didn't hurt her!
I didn't touch her!
I didn't. I didn't!
That's enough.
HE SHIVERS
He was there.
His waders match the prints in the
chalet. He was there.
Did he kill her? He's certainly
capable of killing her.
Whatever he did, whatever he saw,
he's deeply traumatised by it.
Could it be an act?
No, no, I think it's genuine.
DCI Mathias...?
I'm sorry,
but my client isn't in any fit
mental state to be interviewed.
I'd like him psychologically
assessed before further questioning.
With respect, I think
you're being a little premature.
Let me continue the interview if
he breaks down again, then I'll...
I'm sorry. It has to stop now.
Ms Walters,
this is a murder enquiry, our primary
concern is, is to find the killer.
Can I suggest that
we trust the judgment of
Dr Haydn Blake, our police surgeon
in assessing Mr Maybury's
fitness to continue?
Feel free to use
the phone in my office. Please.
DOOR OPENS AND CLOSES
Jenny, hi.
Do you know this picture?
Yeah.
She had one
hanging on the wall at the home.
Did she have one anywhere else?
How would I know?
Devil's Bridge is a long way to go
with a body in the back of the car.
Weren't you worried about being
caught?
Never thought about it.
Why Devil's Bridge, Jenny?
It's where she took us
when we'd been bad.
Down the bottom...
said the Devil lived there.
If we didn't repent -
he'd take our souls
and we'd burn in Hell for ever.
Well, she's lying.
There's a knack.
Thanks.
LIQUID POURS
She's lying to protect someone.
Who? Maybury?
He was definitely at the scene.
That's something else you'll have to
get used to around here.
Do you think I came here by choice?
The official line
is that you did, yeah.
And unofficially?
We're in luck.
You can question Maybury again.
Oh, thank you, sir.
Dr Blake is a valuable resource
to have at our disposal.
So I see.
Right, let's get on with it.
SHAKING: I should have told her.
Her...?
Helen...
Miss Jenkins. I should have
told her and not been ashamed
of what they'd say.
She helped me.
She gave me money
and she hardly had any for herself.
She cared for me.
He had a boat.
Who did?
Her grandfather.
He used to take her out in his boat.
They used to catch fish
and cook it on the fire.
She said she was happy then.
But when he died
she lost the boat too.
I said I'd build her a boat and take
her out fishing, like she used to.
To pay her back for helping me.
I wanted her to know that
I needed her to be like a mother is.
And I wanted her to need me
like a son...
..and she did.
It was our secret...
..so I told nobody.
But you've told us, Hywel,
that's a good thing...
..because we're going
to find out who hurt her.
So, you need to tell us
what happened, what you saw,
when you went to Helen's house.
Will you do that for us?
Hywel...
..for Helen's sake?
I'd been fishing...
..I caught two fish.
I came up from the beach,
to Helen's house.
The door was open.
Banging in the wind.
I saw a car leave. Helen's car.
SUSPENSEFUL SCORE
Could you see who was driving?
No. No, too dark.
I went into the house.
It was bad. There was blood.
Where?
On the floor.
All over. The bathroom.
Everywhere. Lots of blood.
WHISPERS: I ran away.
I knew they'd blame me.
But I didn't hurt her.
HE SNIFFLES
I should have told her.
Told her what, Hywel?
I wanted to tell her,
but I couldn't.
CRYING: I didn't kill her!
I loved her.
HE SOBS
RADIO CHATTER
What shall we do about Jenny?
We've still got plenty of time
to question her.
Let her stew for now, and we'll see
what she has to say in the morning.
Just think what kind of lives those
kids would have had
if their parents had done their job.
It's not rocket science,
just basic care.
"Put your hand over your mouth
when you cough."
"Don't pick your nose in public."
All that small stuff,
it all adds up.
The only thing a child needs
is to feel safe and warm,
and to know that they're loved.
HE SNORES QUIETLY
RADIO: Scilly Automatic -
northwest by north two,
27 miles. 1018, rising more slowly.
Milford Haven - west, northwest two,
18 miles. 1017, rising slowly.
Christ.
Who pulled them out? You or Helen?
What?
It's a simple question. Who was it?
RATTLES LOUDLY
Who pulled their teeth out?
You or her?
She did.
Miss Jenkins.
A lot of the children had bad teeth.
They needed to come out.
It wasn't worth bothering
the tooth fairy for...?
Or worth giving them
anything for the pain?
I didn't like her doing it.
Perhaps I should have stopped her...
So, why didn't you?
Were you scared of her, too?
Did she threaten to lock
you in the Hard Room?
Did she say that the Devil would
come and take away your soul,
that you'd burn in Hell
for ever for your sins?
I think she was murdered
because of something that
happened in that home, Byron.
Something you know about.
I didn't kill her. Then who did?
I don't know.
LEVEL CROSSING ALARM
There's a pattern in the lawn
at Pontarfynach. A... a spiral.
You remember it?
Yes. It's been there for years.
TRAIN PASSES
What does it mean?
It's about the journey you make.
Between life and death.
What happened at the home, Byron?
You know something...
and you are going to tell me.
TRANSLATED FROM WELSH
Emma Jones.
I've been going through
the hotel register, sir.
And...?
There's an Emma Jones who's been
staying at the Devil's Bridge Hotel
every year for the last
three years.
She stays in same room,
on the same date.
January 28th. Except for this year.
The same day Helen Jenkins was
killed? Yes, sir.
She calls herself Emma Jones,
but she uses the same address we
traced Jenny James to in Grangetown.
And you think that it might be her?
Yes, sir, using a false name.
I think you're right, Lloyd.
TYRES SQUEAL
Yes, room ten every January the 28th.
She arrives at tea time,
comes straight up here,
emerges the next morning,
has an early breakfast.
"See you next year." Gone.
And you've no idea why
she comes on that particular date?
No. And I've never asked.
As long as she pays and doesn't nick
the towels, I don't much care.
Is this Emma Jones?
No.
What about her?
When was this taken?
When she was about 17.
Well, she hasn't changed that much,
yeah, that's her definitely -
that's Emma Jones.
Catrin John.
You've got to talk to Jenny James.
Do not release her, you got me?
Arrest her if you have to, but Jenny
James must not leave the premises...
Ask her about Catrin -
she's our Emma Jones.
Where's Catrin?
It's just a name she picked
at random as far as I know.
She was Catrin John when I met her.
And Room ten?
Every January the 28th?
Why that room? That day?
I don't know.
Perhaps it was to remind
herself of who she once was?
Why would she do that, when she's
tried so long to forget her past?
I don't know.
You don't seem to know much about
your own wife at all, Mr Williams.
I thought I knew her.
Catrin only wanted to be married
and have a family.
But...
Having a baby must have meant
so much to you.
Awen, isn't it?
Yes.
Where is she now?
She's upstairs.
Well, she's very quiet.
Is she asleep?
Yes.
Can I see a photograph?
I... took them all down.
Why, Dyfed?
I left Catrin two months ago.
Where were you on Saturday night?
I was singing with the choir.
Minibus dropped me off outside,
like always.
Did you come into the house?
I walked back to the B&B.
I tried to understand,
I tried to protect her...
..but it's like there's a part of her
locked away I just can't reach.
Catrin was raped.
At the home.
She was 13 and she got pregnant.
Who was it, Jenny?
I don't know. Neither does she.
You've no idea, have you?
Not a clue what that place was like.
We were drugged most of the time.
Diazepam and pin-down.
Locked up in the Hard Room,
if we so much as raised our voices.
Hard Room?
On the first floor.
That's where it happened.
TRANSLATED FROM WELSH
As soon as the baby started to show,
Catrin was hidden away,
out of sight.
That's when she started to change.
Wasn't interested in me any more,
only her baby.
She was everything to me...
I was nothing to her after that.
Nothing.
And the baby?
Catrin had the baby.
Jenkins let her hold her for a bit.
Then she took the little thing away.
Catrin has never seen Emma since.
Emma Jones.
That was the baby's name.
Fresh air?
Just a walk round the block.
Haven't you forgotten something?
The baby?
She's with Catrin.
You said you were looking after her.
I am.
I was.
Shall I go and check if she's there?
No, please. I'd rather you didn't...
Where's Catrin gone, Dyfed?
I only lied because I love her...
I wrote to her
when I was in Cardiff,
told her how much I missed her.
She never wrote back.
So I came back to see her.
But she wasn't interested in me.
All she wanted to know was what
happened to Emma.
I told her. I didn't know
where her baby was...
She said she'd do to me
what she'd done to Helen Jenkins
if I didn't tell her...
I was scared...
..she was going to kill me...
I just told her...
What did you tell her, Jenny?
Byron Rodgers.
Interview suspended 18:10.
DOOR BANGS
The more we can get out of Dyfed
about Catrin the more likely we are
to find her.
Get Ellis to meet me
outside Byron Rodgers's house...
I'm on my way.
Lloyd.
Byron...?
FAINT BREATHING
TRAIN PASSES
Ambulance please, Wine Street, SY23.
DOOR OPENS
Catrin got here first.
I've mobilised all units
and alerted the press,
Catrin John is
an extremely disturbed individual.
She has killed once
and is likely to kill again....
Catrin and Jenny both suffered at
the hands of the gutter press as
children.
I'm just asking that we keep
this low-key, restrained, sir.
I can assure you, Tom,
anything I issue to the press will
reflect your concerns.
That's all I ask. Thank you.
RADIO CHATTER
TELEVISION CHATTER
JENNY!
BANGING
DOG BARKS NEXT DOOR
SHE SOBS
SHE SNIFFLES
Catrin wanted a baby more
than breath...
Tried for years.
And then it just happened.
Suddenly she was pregnant
and it was like Christmas every day.
She was so happy.
Three weeks before full term,
the baby stopped moving.
She had the scan and...
Baby had died.
Called her Awen.
She insisted on keeping the nursery
and going through the whole
routine...
feeding, changing nappies.
On a doll.
Then she became obsessed by Emma.
Had to find her.
As if it would compensate,
somehow, for the loss of Awen.
I couldn't hack it.
Maybe if I'd tried harder,
Helen Jenkins would still be alive.
Byron Rodgers is in theatre now,
sir. Touch and go, I'm afraid...
Any news on Catrin?
Nothing yet, sir.
KEYBOARD TAPPING
Will you come and help me
find Catrin?
CROWS CAW
HAUNTING SONG SCORE
DRAMATIC SCORE
Hello, Emma.
Is something wrong?
You've never missed before.
That room is very special to me.
I was a mother here...
..in room ten.
For the first time in my life
I knew what it was like to be loved.
But I lost her.
THROBBING SCORE
Are you all right?
Why don't you
come inside for a while?
You can go into the room.
RADIO: Sir, we found Catrin John's
car,
it was abandoned in the woods
at Devil's Bridge.
Tell Agnes to lock all the doors,
and get any units we have up there
now. I'm on my way.
Sir, wait. What?
Byron Rodgers didn't make it -
he died half an hour ago.
PHONE RINGS
Stay here, don't move.
Agnes?
RINGS BELL
DOG BARKS
Agnes?
Oh, God, am I glad to see you!
Where's Catrin?
I saw her in the garden,
we talked and she flipped.
When she saw
one of the prints in the hotel
she smashed it to pieces...
and she dragged me up here.
Where has she gone?
HAUNTING SONG SCORE
Catrin?
TRANSLATED FROM WELSH
CARS ARRIVE OUTSIDE
I want her in a stab-vest.
Jenny?
She's our backup if Plan A fails.
She knows Catrin better
than any of us.
I know it's a risk but...
I'll take full responsibility.
You know we shouldn't be doing this.
Come on, Mared!
Right, let's do it then.
Just make sure that
everyone stays back.
HE GROANS
No, Catrin, don't...
What are you doing here?
I'm here to help you.
This is between me and Mr Daniel.
Mr Daniel doesn't know
where Emma is.
HE SIMPERS
But I might be able to find her.
How?
I'm a detective.
Finding people is what I do.
We've already started
looking for her.
Where?
Give me the scissors, then
we can go and find her together.
I'm not going to hurt you, trust me.
I don't trust anyone, they just...
Was it you?! Was
it you who raped me?!
No... no, it wasn't me.
He hurt me...
Jenny heard him...
..she tried to help me.
She loves you.
I know.
MARED: Right, you're coming with me.
She misses you...
..that's why she's
come with me to see you.
She's outside,
waiting to talk to you.
Would you like to see her?
Give me your hand, and
we'll go out together to see her.
No!
Catrin, it's OK...
CATRIN: Jenny!
No!
Are you out there?
I've got to talk to her.
Please, let me
go in and talk to her.
No, it's too risky.
You're lying,
she's not out there. JENNY!
Jenny, stop!
JENNY!
Catrin!
We've been looking for Catrin,
haven't we, Jenny?
Yeah, we have.
I've missed you.
I've been looking for Emma.
I know.
I can't find her.
Byron wouldn't tell me.
I didn't want to hurt him,
but he just wouldn't say.
He didn't know, Catrin, that's why.
Then why did you tell me he did?
Because I was scared...
I thought you'd hurt me.
Jenny. As if.
But I know now.
I know where Emma is.
Where? They took her away.
And I could hear you
screaming for her.
I was under the stairs.
You know that little place
where we used to hide?
Where is she, Jenny?!
Where is my baby?
I went into the room...
..where little Emma was.
She was asleep...
..and she was beautiful.
So beautiful.
And I knew...
..that you'd love her
more than me...
..and I didn't want you
to stop loving me.
I was afraid that
she'd take my place...
..a little angel.
So I took her breath away...
So that
she'd be with the angels.
Always with the angels.
And I would be with you.
No.
It's the truth.
I did it because I love you.
I love you.
CATRIN SCREAMS
SHE SOBS
SCISSORS DROP
RADIO CHATTER
Helen told me
the child had died in its sleep.
I had no reason not to believe her.
She thought that the bad publicity
would lead to
the closure of the home.
She begged me not to say anything.
I...blessed the child...and
the ground...
..and then we laid her to rest.
We buried her.
Myself, Helen and Byron.
HE SOBS
I think I know where.
Byron was trying to tell us.
HAUNTING SONG SCORE
SHE SOBS
SHE CONTINUES SOBBING
HE BREATHES HEAVILY
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org